# CompGen
Computational Genomic Projects 

## 1: HMM BaseCaller and FastQC

Created a program that took an CSV file containing normalized fluorescent intensitites for each nucleotide position in each read as input and used the Viterbi algorithm to compute the most likely sequence of nucleotides for each read in FASTA format. The HMM packages in Python (numpy, HMM, pandas, matplotlib). ​Now use the CSV file under Assignment 1 (Files->Assignment Files->assignment1.csv). 

Also created a program that took a FASTQ file and printed the distribution of quality scores across all reads. You can summarize the distribution of Q scores at each base with a statistic of your choice (e.g. mean, mode, median, quantile distribution). If you’d like, you can also plot the distribution of Q scores as a box plot much like what’s generated by FASTQC. You will then run your program on the provided FASTQ file, and obtain the output from it and upload it with your submission. 

##2:Suffix array/tree construction and Binary Search Algorithm with FASTA file(s)  

For this assignment, you will write code to (1) take an input genome as a FASTA file, (2) construct a suffix array/tree from it, (3) take a read as input from a FASTA file, and (4) print all positions where that read occurs in the genome using the bisection algorithm.

s = 'banana' #read the genome string

sa = sorted([s[i:] for i in range(len(s))]) #construct the suffix array library

Note what it’s doing – iterating over 1 – length of the string s; then sorting the array. This will give you the suffix array directly. But note that this is not very memory efficient if you have a large genome. So it might be easier to just directly store the sorted suffix array indices instead. I’ll let you get creative with this!

Please submit your code, and output file with all indices (locations of match) for the input files provided (you'll find this under Assignment Files - Assignment2_refgenome.fasta, Assignment2_read.fasta).

##3: Small Genome Assembly: QualityQC, Trimming and Small Genome Assembly
Find your assigned genome from SRA - full list is provided below; just click on your name and use that particular whole genome sequencing run. Analyze the FASTQ files (recall you'll have to download the archive using wget, then use fastq-dump to convert the SRA file to fastq first) using your own implementation of FASTQC (Assignment 1), and provide the output from your tool/code (figure/output/table). Discuss the Q-score distributions (or any other quality metrics) that you glean information about - note you will not receive any points if you don't discuss your results (10 points).
Assemble the above genome using the same k-mer size using (a) velvet (https://github.com/dzerbino/velvet Links to an external site.), (b) SPADES (https://github.com/ablab/spades Links to an external site.). Then compare the final assemblies with respect to a reference genome for your species (see full list of species below) using QUAST. Discuss the assemblies with respect to the 3C criteria (completeness, contiguity, and correctness) - once again, note that you will not receive any points if you don't discuss your results (40 points). Submit your QUAST output (as .html file) along with a Word/TeX file with your discussion. Using https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/SRX32003758[accn] 
